The President:
Hi, everybody.
This week, I announced a series
of concrete steps we should take
to protect our children and our
communities from gun violence.
These proposals grew out of
meetings Vice President Biden
and his task force held over the
last month with more than 200
different groups -- from
parents and teachers;
to law enforcement
and sportsmen;
to religious leaders and
mental health professionals.
And in the weeks ahead, I'll do
everything in my power to make
them a reality.
Because while we may not be able
to prevent every senseless act
of violence in this country, if
there's even one thing that we
can do to reduce it -- if
even one life can be saved --
we've got an obligation to try.
My administration is taking a
series of actions right away --
from strengthening our
background check system,
to helping schools hire more
resource officers if they want
them, to directing the Centers
for Disease Control to study the
best ways to reduce
gun violence.
But the truth is, making a real
and lasting difference also
requires Congress to
act -- and act soon.
First, it's time for Congress to
require a universal background
check for anyone
trying to buy a gun.
The law already requires
licensed gun dealers to perform
these checks, but as many as
40% of all gun purchases are
conducted without one.
That's not safe, it's not smart,
and it's not fair to responsible
gun buyers or sellers.
An overwhelming majority of
Americans agree that anyone
trying to buy a gun should at
least have to prove that they're
not a felon, or somebody legally
prohibited from owning one.
That's just common sense.
Second, Congress should restore
a ban on military-style assault
weapons, and a 10-round
limit for magazines.
Many assault rifles, when
combined with high-capacity
magazines, have one purpose
and one purpose only:
to fire as many bullets as
possible as quickly as possible.
These weapons have no
place in our communities.
And a majority of the
American people agree with me.
Finally, Congress needs to make
it easier, rather than harder,
for law enforcement
to do its job.
We should get tougher on people
who buy guns only to turn around
and sell them to criminals.
And at a time when many
communities have been forced to
make cuts to their police force,
we should put more cops back on
the job and back on the street.
Like most Americans, I believe
the Second Amendment guarantees
an individual
right to bear arms.
We have a strong tradition of
gun ownership in this country,
and the vast majority of
gun owners act responsibly.
But I also believe most gun
owners agree that we can respect
the Second Amendment while
keeping an irresponsible,
law-breaking few from causing
harm on a massive scale.
That's what these reforms
are designed to do.
None of this will be easy.
Already, we're seeing
pundits and politicians
and special-interest lobbyists
calling any attempt at
commonsense reform an
all-out assault on liberty --
not because that's true, but
because that's how they get
higher ratings or
make more money.
And behind the scenes, they're
doing everything they can to
protect the status quo.
But this time, it
can't be up to them.
It's got to be up to you.
If, like me, you want
this time to be different,
then I need your help
to make it different.
Ask your Member of Congress
if they support universal
background checks and renewing
a ban on military-style assault
weapons and
high-capacity magazines.
And if the answer is
no, ask them why not.
Ask them why an A-grade from the
gun lobby is more important than
keeping kids safe in a
first grade classroom.
Since the tragedy in Newtown,
I've gotten letters from all
over the country -- including
many from our young people.
One of them was from 8-year-old
Rachel, who lives in
Brooklyn, New York.
She wrote: "Please do something
so that bad people cannot get
"guns to kill other people.
"Children should be safe,
especially in school."
Rachel's counting on us.
Let's get this done for her, and
all the other children in this
country, and let's make sure
this country is a safer place
for all children to
learn and to grow.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.